STICKLER(1)
===========

NAME
----
stickler - command line program to interact with a stickler-server


SYNOPSIS
--------
*stickler* [--help] [COMMAND] [COMMAND_OPTIONS] [gemfile(s)]


DESCRIPTION
-----------
Stickler is a tool to organize and maintain an internal gem repository of
proprietary gems and/or a mirror of third party gems.

The stickler(1) command interacts with an instance of
stickler-server(1) to control the publishing and mirroring of ruby
gems.


COMMANDS
--------
*push*: 
    Push one or more gems to a gemserver.  This works the same as `gem push`
    although there is no authorization mechanism.

*yank*: 
    Remove a gem from the gemserver's index.  It will still be available from
    direct download.  This works the same as `gem yank`.

*mirror*:
    Pull a specific version of a gem from an upstream gem server and
    store it in a stickler-server(1).

*config*:
    Access or update the stickler client configuration.

*list*:
    List all the gems in the remote repository.

*unyank*:
    Put a gem that was _yanked_ back into the gemserver index. This reverses a
    `yank`.

*last-version*:
    Prints the latest version of a gem

OPTIONS
-------
These are the options for all commands.  Not all options apply to all commands.

*-a, --add*:
    Add the `--server` or `--upstream` items to the config file when using the
    `config` command.

*-d, --debug*:
    Output debug information

*-g, --gem-version*='VERSION':
    The version of the gem to yank from `--server` or to mirror from
    `--upstream`.

*-h, --help*:
    Show the help message

*-l, --list*:
    Display the current configuration when using the `config` command.

*-p, --platform*='PLATFORM':
    The platform of the gem to yank from `--server` or to mirror from
    `--upstream` (e.g.  ruby, java, mswin32)

*-s, --server*='SERVER':
    The gem server or stickler-server(1) URL.  This is used by all the commands.

*-u, --upstream*='SERVER':
    The upstream server from which to mirror a gem when using the `mirror`
    command.

*-v, --version*:
    Output the version.


CONFIGURATION
-------------
Stickler uses the `.gem/stickler` file to hold its configuration.  It is a yaml
file and Currently there are two options.  These are altered using the `stickler
config` command.

*upstream*: The default upstream server from which to mirror gems.
*server*:   The default linkstick:stickler-server[1] to interact with.

An example config file

    --- 
    :server: http://stickler.example.com
    :upstream: https://rubygems.org


EXAMPLES
--------
Push the local `my_gem-1.0.0.gem` file to the stickler-server(1) at
*stickler.example.com*

    stickler push ./my_gem-1.0.0.gem --server http://stickler.example.com/

Push all the gems in the `pkg` directory to the stickler-server(1) at
*stickler.example.com*

    stickler push --server http://stickler.example.com/ ./pkg/*.gem 

Yank vesion 1.0.0 of my_gem from the gem index on sticker.example.com

    stickler yank my_gem --version 1.0.0 --server http://stickler.example.com/

Take the +third_party+ gem, version +1.4.2+ that is on *rubygems.org* and mirror
it on *stickler.example.com*

    stickler mirror third_party_gem --gem-version 0.4.2 --upstream http://rubygems.org/ --server http://stickler.example.com/
    stickler mirror --help 

Set the `server` and `upstream` configration values in the `.gem/stickler` file.

    stickler config --add --server http://stickler.example.com --upstream http://rubygems.org/


SEE ALSO
--------
stickler-server(1), stickler-passenger-config(1)


AUTHOR
------
Written by Jeremy Hinegardner <jeremy@copiousfreetime.org>


RESOURCES
---------
[GitHub project](https://www.github.com/copiousfreetime/stickler)


BUGS
----
Please report bugs to the [github issue tracker](https://github.com/copiousfreetime/stickler/issues)
